class_10/README.md, before:

# Class 10

---

## Linear Regression & Gradient Descent

[code](code/linear_regression.py)

[Linear Regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_regression)

[Gradient Descent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gradient_descent)


---

dataset: [faithful](code/data/faithful.txt)

```
Blue line is a=10.729641, b=33.474397, computed by the formula.
```

The more closer to red the lines is, the more iteration it took to compute it.

| iterations | a | b |
|------------|---|---|
| 2 | 1.433064 |  1.122668 |
| 8 | 4.948447 | 4.178314 |
| 16 | 8.209056 | 7.644576 |
| 32 | 11.650673 | 13.058335 |
| 64 | 13.193304 | 20.207599 |
| 128 | 12.222065 | 27.556718 |
| 256 | 11.046182 | 32.260256 |

![](code/img/linear_regression_faithful.png)

---

dataset: [linreg](code/data/linreg.txt)

```
Blue line is a=2.399743, b=1.445519, computed by the formula.
```

The more closer to red the lines is, the more iteration it took to compute it.

| iterations | a | b |
|------------|---|---|
| 2 | 0.355727 | 0.148163 |
| 4 | 0.658922 | 0.280810 |
| 8 | 1.137532 | 0.506049 |
| 16 | 1.737311 | 0.832512 |
| 32 | 2.218969 | 1.182095 |
| 64 | 2.387213 | 1.395708 |
| 128 | 2.399759 | 1.443668 |
| 256 | 2.399743 | 1.445517 |

![](code/img/linear_regression_linreg.png)

---

## k-means Clustering

dataset: [faithful](code/data/faithful.txt)

![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_0_faithful.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_0_faithful.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_1_faithful.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_1_faithful.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_2_faithful.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_2_faithful.png)

dataset: [linreg](code/data/linreg.txt)

![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_0_linreg.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_0_linreg.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_1_linreg.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_1_linreg.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_2_linreg.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_2_linreg.png)

dataset: [test](code/data/test.txt)

![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_0_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_0_test.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_1_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_1_test.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_2_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_2_test.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_3_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_3_test.png)

Commit message:

add: class 10 clusters detection k means

class_10/README.md, after:

# Class 10

---

## Linear Regression & Gradient Descent

[code](code/linear_regression.py)

[Linear Regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_regression)

[Gradient Descent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gradient_descent)


---

dataset: [faithful](code/data/faithful.txt)

```
Blue line is a=10.729641, b=33.474397, computed by the formula.
```

The more closer to red the lines is, the more iteration it took to compute it.

| iterations | a | b |
|------------|---|---|
| 2 | 1.433064 |  1.122668 |
| 8 | 4.948447 | 4.178314 |
| 16 | 8.209056 | 7.644576 |
| 32 | 11.650673 | 13.058335 |
| 64 | 13.193304 | 20.207599 |
| 128 | 12.222065 | 27.556718 |
| 256 | 11.046182 | 32.260256 |

![](code/img/linear_regression_faithful.png)

---

dataset: [linreg](code/data/linreg.txt)

```
Blue line is a=2.399743, b=1.445519, computed by the formula.
```

The more closer to red the lines is, the more iteration it took to compute it.

| iterations | a | b |
|------------|---|---|
| 2 | 0.355727 | 0.148163 |
| 4 | 0.658922 | 0.280810 |
| 8 | 1.137532 | 0.506049 |
| 16 | 1.737311 | 0.832512 |
| 32 | 2.218969 | 1.182095 |
| 64 | 2.387213 | 1.395708 |
| 128 | 2.399759 | 1.443668 |
| 256 | 2.399743 | 1.445517 |

![](code/img/linear_regression_linreg.png)

---

## k-means Clustering

[code](code/clusters_detection.py)

Plots of the k-means algorithm detecting clusters (after 3 or 4 iterations) on
various datasets.

Black squares are centers of clusters during the running of the algorithm.

dataset: [faithful](code/data/faithful.txt)

![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_0_faithful.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_0_faithful.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_1_faithful.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_1_faithful.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_2_faithful.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_2_faithful.png)

dataset: [linreg](code/data/linreg.txt)

![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_0_linreg.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_0_linreg.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_1_linreg.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_1_linreg.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_2_linreg.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_2_linreg.png)

dataset: [test](code/data/test.txt)

![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_0_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_0_test.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_1_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_1_test.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_2_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_2_test.png)
![](code/img/clusters_detection_init_3_test.png) ![](code/img/clusters_detection_after_3_test.png)
